Data Science.
Getting value out of big data.
We have all heard data science turned
data into insights or even actions.
But what does that really mean?
Data science can be
thought of as a basis for
empirical research where data is used
to induce information for observations.
These observations are mainly data,
in our case,
big data, related to a business or
scientific case.
Insight is a term
we use to refer to the data
products of data science.
It is extracted from a diverse amount
of data through a combination of
exploratory data analysis and modeling.
The questions are sometimes more specific,
and sometimes it requires
looking at the data and patterns in it
to come up with the specific question.
Another important point to recognize
is that data science is not static.
It is not one time analysis.
It involves a process where models
generated to lead to insights
are constantly improved through further
empirical evidence, or simply, data.
For example, a book retailer like
Amazon.com can constantly improve
the model of a customer's book preferences
using the customer demographic,
his or her previous purchases and
the book reviews of the customer.
The book retailer can also
uses information to predict
which customers are likely
to like any book,
and take action to market
the book to those customers.
This is where we see insights
being turned into action.
As we have seen in the book marketing
example, using data science and analysis
of the past and current information,
data science generates actions.
This is not just an analysis of the past,
but
rather generation of actionable
information for the future.
This is what we can call a prediction,
like the weather forecast.
When you decide what to wear for
the day based on the forecast of the day,
you are taking action based
on insight delivered to you.
Just like this, business leaders and
decision makers
take action based on the evidence
provided by their data science teams.
We set data science teams.
This comes from the breadth of information
and skill that it takes to make it happen.
You have probably seen diagrams like
this one that describe data science.
Data science happens at
the intersection of computer science,
mathematics and business expertise.
If we zoom deeper into this diagram and
open the sets of expertise we will
see a variation of this figure.
Even at this level, all of these circles
require deeper knowledge and skills
in areas like domain expertise, data
engineering, statistics and computing.
An even deeper analysis of these
skills will lead you to skills like
machine learning, statistical modeling,
relational algebra,
business passion, problem solving and
data visualization.
That's a lot of skills to have for
a single person.
These wide range of skills and
definitions of data scientists having them
all led to discussions like
are data scientists unicorns?
Meaning they don't exist.
There are data science experts who have
expertise in more than one of these
skills, for sure.
But they're relatively rare, and
still would probably need help from
an expert on some of these areas.
So, in reality, data scientists
are teams of people who act like one.
They are passionate about the story and
the meaning behind data.
They understand they problem
they are trying to solve, and
aim to find the right analytical
methods to solve this problem.
And they all have an interest in
engineering solutions to solve problems.
They also have curiosity about each
others work, and have communication
skills to interact with the team and
present their ideas and results to others.
As a summary, a data science team often
comes together to analyze situations,
business or scientific cases, which none
of the individuals can solve on their own.
There are lots of moving
parts to the solution.
But in the end, all these parts
should come together to provide
actionable insight based on big data.
Being able to use evidence-based
insight in business decisions is more
important now than ever.
Data scientists have a combination
of technical, business and
soft skills to make this happen.